developer_docs/order_docs.md, before:

# Multidimensional ndarrays memory layout (order)

## Order in numpy

`order` is the parameter given to the `numpy.array` function in order to choose how the array is stored in memory.
Both of the orders discussed here (`order_c` and `order_f`) are stored **contiguously** in memory, but they differ in how they are arranged.

### Order C

`order='C'` tells `Numpy` to store the array row by row (row-major), example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3],
                [4, 5, 6],
                [7, 8, 9]], order='C') # order='C' is the default in numpy.array
  print(a.ravel('K'))
 ```

`array.ravel('k')` shows us how the array is stored in memory.
This python script will output `[1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9]`, notice that the rows are stored one after the other.
This is the default behaviour in python.

### Order F

`order='F'` on the other hand tells `Numpy` to store the array column by column (column-major), example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3],
                [4, 5, 6],
                [7, 8, 9]], order='F')
  print(a.ravel('K'))
```

This python script will output `[1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 9]`, notice that the columns are stored one after the other.

### Printing and indexing in `Numpy`

`order` in `Numpy` does not affect the indexing or the printing, unlike `transposing`, the `shape` of the array remains the same, only the `strides` change, example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
   a = np.array([[1, 2],
                [4, 5],
                [7, 8]], order='F')
   b = np.array([[1, 2],
                [4, 5],
                [7, 8]], order='C')
   print(a.shape, a.strides) # output: (3, 2) (8, 24)
   print(b.shape, b.strides) # output: (3, 2) (16, 8)
   print(a)
   # output:[[1 2]
   #         [4 5]
   #         [7 8]]
   print(b)
   # output:[[1 2]
   #         [4 5]
   #         [7 8]]

   print(a[2][1], a[0][0], a[1]) # output: 8 1 [4 5]
   print(b[2][1], b[0][0], b[1]) # output: 8 1 [4 5]
```

`arr.strides` is the variable that helps us navigate the array (indexing/printing), it tells us how many bytes we have to skip in memory to move to the next position along a certain axis (dimension). For example for `memory_layout_of_a = [1 4 7 2 5 8]` and `strides_of_a = (8, 24)`, we have to skip 8 bytes (1 element for `int64`) to move to the next row, but 24 bytes (3 elements for `int64`) to get to the same position in the next column of `a`.
`a[2][1]` would give us `'8'`, using the `strides`: `2 * 8 + 1 * 24 = 40`, which means that in the flattened array, we would have to skip `40` bytes to get the value of `a[2][1]`, each element is 8 bytes, so we would have to skip `40 / 8 = 5` elements to get to `'8'`

## Pyccel's C code

In `Pyccel`'s C code, we aim to replicate `Numpy`'s indexing/printing and memory layout conventions.

### Ordering in C code

The arrays in `C` code, flattened into a one dimensional array, `strides` and `shape` are used to navigate the array (unlike `Numpy`. `Pyccel`'s strides use 'number of elements' instead of 'number of bytes' as a unit)
While the `order_c ndarrays` only require a simple copy to be populated, `order_f` array creation requires slightly different steps.

Example:

  `order_c` creation
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. allocate/create `order_c ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. copy values to `ndarray`

  `order_f` creation
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. allocate/create temporary `order_c ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. copy values to temporary `ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. allocate/create `order_f ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. copy temporary `ndarray` elements to final `order_f ndarray` using `strides` and `shape`, this will create a column-major version of the temporary `order_c ndarray`

### Indexing in C code

For indexing, the function `GET_ELEMENT(arr, type, ...)` is used, indexing does not change with `order` so that we can  mirror `Numpy`'s conventions.

If we take the following 2D array as an example:
|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

with `array.rows = 2` and `array.columns = 3`, `GET_ELEMENT(arr, int32, 0, 1)` which is equivelant to `arr[0][1]` would return `2` no matter the `order`.

To loop efficiently in an `order_c ndarray`, we would do this:
```c
for (int row = 0; row < array.rows; ++i)
{
  for (int column = 0; column < array.columns; ++j)
  {
    GET_ELEMENT(array, int32, row, column) = ...;
  }
}
```

For an `order_f ndarray` we would do this:

```c
for (int column = 0; column < array.columns; ++i)
{
  for (int row = 0; row < array.rows; ++j)
  {
    GET_ELEMENT(array, int32, row, column) = ...;
  }
}
```

### `order_c` array creation example

To create an `order_c ndarray`, we simply copy the flattened data to our `ndarray`'s data placeholder that changes depending on the type.

If the data is composed of scalars only (ex: `np.array([1, 2, 3])`), an `array_dummy` is created, before copying it to our destination `ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
```

Would translate to:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3), INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)}; // Creation of an array_dummy containing the scalars, notice the data is flattened
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 6 * a.type_size); // Copying from array_dummy to our ndarray 'a'
    free_array(a);
    return 0;
}
```

If the data is composed of at least one variable array (like `c` in the example below), we would use a series of copy operations to our `
ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  b = np.array([4, 5, 6])
  c = np.array([a, [7, 8, 9], b])
```

Would translate to this:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray b = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray c = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)};
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 3 * a.type_size);
    b = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy_0001[] = {INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)};
    memcpy(b.nd_int64, array_dummy_0001, 3 * b.type_size);

    // 'c' ndarray creation starts here, 'c' is [a, [7, 8, 9], b]

    c = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating 'c' ndarray
    uint32_t offset = 0; // Initializing offset, used later to avoid overwritting data when executing multiple copy operations
    array_copy_data(&c, a, offset); // Copying the first element of 'c', 'offset' is 0 since it's our first copy operation
    offset += a.length; // Incrementing offset for upcoming copy operation
    int64_t array_dummy_0002[] = {INT64_C(7), INT64_C(8), INT64_C(9)}; // Creating an array_dummy with 'c''s second element's scalars ([7, 8, 9])
    memcpy(c.nd_int64 + offset, array_dummy_0002, 3 * c.type_size); // 'offset' is also with 'memcpy'
    offset += 3; // incrementing 'offset', preparing for final copy
    array_copy_data(&c, b, offset); // Copying the third element to 'c' ndarray
    free_array(a);
    free_array(b);
    free_array(c);
    return 0;
}
```

### `order_f` array creation example

If the data is one dimensional, all we would need is one copy operation, same as an `order_c ndarray`.

For `order_f`, the process is similar to `order_c`, but instead of copying our data straight to the destination `ndarray`, we first create an (`order_c`) `temp_ndarray`, copy the data to the `temp_ndarray`, then create an `order_f ndarray`, and copy from the `temp_ndarray` to the destination `order_f ndarray` _ using `strides` and `shape` _ to get the correct column-major memory layout.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]], order="F")
  print(a[0][0]) # output ==> 1
```

Would be translated to this:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_f); // Allocating the required ndarray
    t_ndarray temp_array = {.shape = NULL};
    temp_array = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating an order_c temp_array
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3), INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)}; // array_dummy with our flattened data
    memcpy(temp_array.nd_int64, array_dummy, 6 * temp_array.type_size); // Copying our array_dummy to our temp ndarray
    array_copy_data(&a, temp_array, 0); // Copying into a column-major memory layout
    free_array(temp_array); // Freeing the temp_array right after we were done with it
    printf("%ld\n", GET_ELEMENT(a, nd_int64, (int64_t)0, (int64_t)0)); // output ==> 1
    free_array(a);
    return 0;
}
```

If the data is composed of at least one variable array, the process would still be somewhat the same as an `order_c ndarray` creation:
   The `order_f ndarray` is not populated from the get go, instead, we create an `order_c temp_array` (following `order_c ndarray` creation steps) containing all the data, then we do a 'copy into a column-major memory layout' operation to our `order_f ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  b = np.array([4, 5, 6])
  f = np.array([a, [7, 8, 9], b], order="F")
```

Would be translated to (focus on `f` `ndarray` creation):

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray b = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray c = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){3}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)};
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 3 * a.type_size);
    b = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy_0001[] = {INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)};
    memcpy(b.nd_int64, array_dummy_0001, 3 * b.type_size);

    // 'f' ndarray creation

    f = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_f); // Allocating the required ndarray (order_f)
    t_ndarray temp_array = {.shape = NULL};
    temp_array = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating a temp_array (order_c)
    uint32_t offset = 0;
    array_copy_data(&temp_array, a, offset); // Copying the first element to temp_array
    offset += a.length;
    int64_t array_dummy_0002[] = {INT64_C(7), INT64_C(8), INT64_C(9)};
    memcpy(temp_array.nd_int64 + offset, array_dummy_0002, 3 * temp_array.type_size); // Copying the second element to temp_array
    offset += 3;
    array_copy_data(&temp_array, b, offset); // Copying the third element to temp_array
    array_copy_data(&f, temp_array, 0); // Copying our temp_array into a column-major memory layout (order_f)
    free_array(temp_array); // freeing the temp_array
    free_array(a);
    free_array(b);
    free_array(c);
    return 0;
}
```

## Pyccel's Fortran code

### Ordering in Fortran code

As Fortran has arrays in the language there is no need to add special handling for arrays. Fortran ordered arrays (`order_f`) are already compatible with the Fortran language. They can therefore be passed to the function as they are.

In order to pass C ordered arrays (`order_c`) and retain the shape and correct element placing to be compatible with Fortran, a transpose would be needed.
In pyccel, we prefer to avoid unnecessary copies, so instead we pass the contiguous block of memory to Fortran and change how we index the array to ensure that we access the expected element.

### Indexing arrays in Fortran

Fortran indexing does not occur in the same order as in C.
If we take the following 2D array as an example:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

In C the element `A[1,0]=4` is the fourth element in memory, however in Fortran the element `A(1,0)=4` is the second element in memory.
Thus to iterate over this array in the most efficient way in C we would do:
```C
# A.shape = (2,3)
for (int row = 0; row < 2; ++row) {
    for (int column = 0; column < 3; ++column) {
        A[row,column] = ....
    }
}
```

while in Fortran we would do:

```Fortran
# A.shape = (3,2)
do column = 0, 2
    do row = 0, 3
        A(row,column) = ....
    end do
end do
```

As you can see in the Fortran-ordered array the indices are inverted compared to how they would be printed in C.
Pyccel therefore handles the printing of Fortran-ordered arrays by inverting the index order so as to preserve the most efficient indexing.

Example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == '__main__':
    A = np.array([[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]], order='C')
    B = np.array([[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]], order='F')
    print(A.shape)  # (3,2)
    print(B.shape)   # (3,2)
    # print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6])
    # print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6])

    # Index optimally for A:
    for row in range(3):
        for column in range(2):
            A[row,column] = ...

    # Index optimally for B:
    for column in range(2):
        for row in range(3):
            B[row,column] = ...
```

Will be translated to:

```Fortran
program prog_prog_tmp

  use tmp

  use, intrinsic :: ISO_C_Binding, only : i64 => C_INT64_T
  implicit none

  integer(i64), allocatable :: A(:,:)
  integer(i64), allocatable :: B(:,:)
  integer(i64) :: row
  integer(i64) :: column

  allocate(A(0:1_i64, 0:2_i64))
  A = reshape([[1_i64, 2_i64], [3_i64, 4_i64], [5_i64, 6_i64]], [2_i64, &
        3_i64])
  allocate(B(0:2_i64, 0:1_i64))
  B = transpose(reshape([[1_i64, 2_i64], [3_i64, 4_i64], [5_i64, 6_i64 &
        ]], [2_i64, 3_i64]))
  write(*, '(A A I0 A A A I0 A A)', advance="yes") '(' , ' ' , 3_i64 , '&
  & ' , ', ' , ' ' , 2_i64 , ' ' , ')'
  write(*, '()', advance="yes")
  write(*, '(A A I0 A A A I0 A A)', advance="yes") '(' , ' ' , 3_i64 , '&
  & ' , ', ' , ' ' , 2_i64 , ' ' , ')'
  write(*, '()', advance="yes")
  !print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6])
  !print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6])
  !Index optimally for A:
  do row = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
    do column = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
      A(column, row) = ...
    end do
  end do
  !Index optimally for B:
  do column = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
    do row = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
      B(row, column) = ...
    end do
  end do
  if (allocated(A)) then
    deallocate(A)
  end if
  if (allocated(B)) then
    deallocate(B)
  end if

end program prog_prog_tmp
```

Note the changes to the shape and the indexing, which make this code closer to the following intermediate representation:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == '__main__':
    A_mem = np.array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    A = np.array(A_mem.reshape(2,3), order='C')
    B_mem = np.array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    B = np.array(B_mem.reshape(3,2), order='C')
    print(A.shape[::-1])  # (3,2)
    print(B.shape)   # (3,2)
    # print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    # print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1,2,3,4,5,6])

    # Index optimally for A in F layout:
    for i in range(3):
        for j in range(2):
            A[j,i] = ...

    # Index optimally for B in F layout:
    for j in range(2):
        for i in range(3):
            B[i,j] = ...
```

### Order C

Consider the following 2D C-ordered array:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

where the numbers indicate the position of the elements in memory. If this data block ([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]) were passed to Fortran indicating a size (2,3), we would obtain the following array:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 3 | 5 |
| 2 | 4 | 6 |

As a result we cannot pass the data block without either rearranging the elements (transpose), or changing the index. In pyccel we prefer avoiding unnecessary copies. As a result we pass a data block ([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]), but we indicate a size (3,2). This gives us the following array:

|   |   |
|---|---|
| 1 | 4 |
| 2 | 5 |
| 3 | 6 |

This is equivalent to the transpose of the original array. As a result we can obtain expected results by simply inverting the index order.

Therefore the following python code:
```python
for i in range(2):
    for j in range(3):
        a[i,j] = i*3+j
```

is translated to the following efficient indexing:
```fortran
do i = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
  do j = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
    a(j, i) = i * 3_i64 + j
  end do
end do
```

Commit message:

mentions that one dimensional arrays need no order

developer_docs/order_docs.md, after:

# ndarrays memory layout (order)

## Order in numpy

`order` is the parameter given to the `numpy.array` function in order to choose how the array is stored in memory.
Both of the orders discussed here (`order_c` and `order_f`) are stored **contiguously** in memory, but they differ in how they are arranged.

### Order C

`order='C'` tells `Numpy` to store the array row by row (row-major), example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3],
                [4, 5, 6],
                [7, 8, 9]], order='C') # order='C' is the default in numpy.array
  print(a.ravel('K'))
 ```

`array.ravel('k')` shows us how the array is stored in memory.
This python script will output `[1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9]`, notice that the rows are stored one after the other.
This is the default behaviour in python.

### Order F

`order='F'` on the other hand tells `Numpy` to store the array column by column (column-major), example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3],
                [4, 5, 6],
                [7, 8, 9]], order='F')
  print(a.ravel('K'))
```

This python script will output `[1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 9]`, notice that the columns are stored one after the other.

### Printing and indexing in `Numpy`

`order` in `Numpy` does not affect the indexing or the printing, unlike `transposing`, the `shape` of the array remains the same, only the `strides` change, example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == "__main__":
   a = np.array([[1, 2],
                [4, 5],
                [7, 8]], order='F')
   b = np.array([[1, 2],
                [4, 5],
                [7, 8]], order='C')
   print(a.shape, a.strides) # output: (3, 2) (8, 24)
   print(b.shape, b.strides) # output: (3, 2) (16, 8)
   print(a)
   # output:[[1 2]
   #         [4 5]
   #         [7 8]]
   print(b)
   # output:[[1 2]
   #         [4 5]
   #         [7 8]]

   print(a[2][1], a[0][0], a[1]) # output: 8 1 [4 5]
   print(b[2][1], b[0][0], b[1]) # output: 8 1 [4 5]
```

`arr.strides` is the variable that helps us navigate the array (indexing/printing), it tells us how many bytes we have to skip in memory to move to the next position along a certain axis (dimension). For example for `memory_layout_of_a = [1 4 7 2 5 8]` and `strides_of_a = (8, 24)`, we have to skip 8 bytes (1 element for `int64`) to move to the next row, but 24 bytes (3 elements for `int64`) to get to the same position in the next column of `a`.
`a[2][1]` would give us `'8'`, using the `strides`: `2 * 8 + 1 * 24 = 40`, which means that in the flattened array, we would have to skip `40` bytes to get the value of `a[2][1]`, each element is 8 bytes, so we would have to skip `40 / 8 = 5` elements to get to `'8'`

## Pyccel's C code

In `Pyccel`'s C code, we aim to replicate `Numpy`'s indexing/printing and memory layout conventions.

### Ordering in C code

Multidimensional arrays in `C` code are flattened into a one dimensional array, `strides` and `shape` are used to navigate this array (unlike `Numpy`. `Pyccel`'s strides use 'number of elements' instead of 'number of bytes' as a unit)
While the `order_c ndarrays` only require a simple copy to be populated, `order_f` array creation requires slightly different steps.

Example:

  `order_c` creation
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. allocate/create `order_c ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. copy values to `ndarray`

  `order_f` creation
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. allocate/create temporary `order_c ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. copy values to temporary `ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. allocate/create `order_f ndarray`
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. copy temporary `ndarray` elements to final `order_f ndarray` using `strides` and `shape`, this will create a column-major version of the temporary `order_c ndarray`

One dimensional arrays require no order, since order would not change how they behave.

### Indexing in C code

For indexing, the function `GET_ELEMENT(arr, type, ...)` is used, indexing does not change with `order` so that we can  mirror `Numpy`'s conventions.

If we take the following 2D array as an example:
|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

with `array.rows = 2` and `array.columns = 3`, `GET_ELEMENT(arr, int32, 0, 1)` which is equivelant to `arr[0][1]` would return `2` no matter the `order`.

To loop efficiently in an `order_c ndarray`, we would do this:
```c
for (int row = 0; row < array.rows; ++i)
{
  for (int column = 0; column < array.columns; ++j)
  {
    GET_ELEMENT(array, int32, row, column) = ...;
  }
}
```

For an `order_f ndarray` we would do this:

```c
for (int column = 0; column < array.columns; ++i)
{
  for (int row = 0; row < array.rows; ++j)
  {
    GET_ELEMENT(array, int32, row, column) = ...;
  }
}
```

### `order_c` array creation example

To create an `order_c ndarray`, we simply copy the flattened data to our `ndarray`'s data placeholder that changes depending on the type.

If the data is composed of scalars only (ex: `np.array([1, 2, 3])`), an `array_dummy` is created, before copying it to our destination `ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
```

Would translate to:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3), INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)}; // Creation of an array_dummy containing the scalars, notice the data is flattened
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 6 * a.type_size); // Copying from array_dummy to our ndarray 'a'
    free_array(a);
    return 0;
}
```

If the data is composed of at least one variable array (like `c` in the example below), we would use a series of copy operations to our `
ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  b = np.array([4, 5, 6])
  c = np.array([a, [7, 8, 9], b])
```

Would translate to this:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray b = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray c = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)};
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 3 * a.type_size);
    b = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy_0001[] = {INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)};
    memcpy(b.nd_int64, array_dummy_0001, 3 * b.type_size);

    // 'c' ndarray creation starts here, 'c' is [a, [7, 8, 9], b]

    c = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating 'c' ndarray
    uint32_t offset = 0; // Initializing offset, used later to avoid overwritting data when executing multiple copy operations
    array_copy_data(&c, a, offset); // Copying the first element of 'c', 'offset' is 0 since it's our first copy operation
    offset += a.length; // Incrementing offset for upcoming copy operation
    int64_t array_dummy_0002[] = {INT64_C(7), INT64_C(8), INT64_C(9)}; // Creating an array_dummy with 'c''s second element's scalars ([7, 8, 9])
    memcpy(c.nd_int64 + offset, array_dummy_0002, 3 * c.type_size); // 'offset' is also with 'memcpy'
    offset += 3; // incrementing 'offset', preparing for final copy
    array_copy_data(&c, b, offset); // Copying the third element to 'c' ndarray
    free_array(a);
    free_array(b);
    free_array(c);
    return 0;
}
```

### `order_f` array creation example

For `order_f`, the process is similar to `order_c`, but instead of copying our data straight to the destination `ndarray`, we first create an (`order_c`) `temp_ndarray`, copy the data to the `temp_ndarray`, then create an `order_f ndarray`, and copy from the `temp_ndarray` to the destination `order_f ndarray` _ using `strides` and `shape` _ to get the correct column-major memory layout.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]], order="F")
  print(a[0][0]) # output ==> 1
```

Would be translated to this:

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_f); // Allocating the required ndarray
    t_ndarray temp_array = {.shape = NULL};
    temp_array = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating an order_c temp_array
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3), INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)}; // array_dummy with our flattened data
    memcpy(temp_array.nd_int64, array_dummy, 6 * temp_array.type_size); // Copying our array_dummy to our temp ndarray
    array_copy_data(&a, temp_array, 0); // Copying into a column-major memory layout
    free_array(temp_array); // Freeing the temp_array right after we were done with it
    printf("%ld\n", GET_ELEMENT(a, nd_int64, (int64_t)0, (int64_t)0)); // output ==> 1
    free_array(a);
    return 0;
}
```

If the data is composed of at least one variable array, the process would still be somewhat the same as an `order_c ndarray` creation:
   The `order_f ndarray` is not populated from the get go, instead, we create an `order_c temp_array` (following `order_c ndarray` creation steps) containing all the data, then we do a 'copy into a column-major memory layout' operation to our `order_f ndarray`.

Example:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
  import numpy as np
  a = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  b = np.array([4, 5, 6])
  f = np.array([a, [7, 8, 9], b], order="F")
```

Would be translated to (focus on `f` `ndarray` creation):

```c
int main()
{
    t_ndarray a = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray b = {.shape = NULL};
    t_ndarray c = {.shape = NULL};
    a = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){3}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy[] = {INT64_C(1), INT64_C(2), INT64_C(3)};
    memcpy(a.nd_int64, array_dummy, 3 * a.type_size);
    b = array_create(1, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c);
    int64_t array_dummy_0001[] = {INT64_C(4), INT64_C(5), INT64_C(6)};
    memcpy(b.nd_int64, array_dummy_0001, 3 * b.type_size);

    // 'f' ndarray creation

    f = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_f); // Allocating the required ndarray (order_f)
    t_ndarray temp_array = {.shape = NULL};
    temp_array = array_create(2, (int64_t[]){INT64_C(3), INT64_C(3)}, nd_int64, false, order_c); // Allocating a temp_array (order_c)
    uint32_t offset = 0;
    array_copy_data(&temp_array, a, offset); // Copying the first element to temp_array
    offset += a.length;
    int64_t array_dummy_0002[] = {INT64_C(7), INT64_C(8), INT64_C(9)};
    memcpy(temp_array.nd_int64 + offset, array_dummy_0002, 3 * temp_array.type_size); // Copying the second element to temp_array
    offset += 3;
    array_copy_data(&temp_array, b, offset); // Copying the third element to temp_array
    array_copy_data(&f, temp_array, 0); // Copying our temp_array into a column-major memory layout (order_f)
    free_array(temp_array); // freeing the temp_array
    free_array(a);
    free_array(b);
    free_array(c);
    return 0;
}
```

## Pyccel's Fortran code

### Ordering in Fortran code

As Fortran has arrays in the language there is no need to add special handling for arrays. Fortran ordered arrays (`order_f`) are already compatible with the Fortran language. They can therefore be passed to the function as they are.

In order to pass C ordered arrays (`order_c`) and retain the shape and correct element placing to be compatible with Fortran, a transpose would be needed.
In pyccel, we prefer to avoid unnecessary copies, so instead we pass the contiguous block of memory to Fortran and change how we index the array to ensure that we access the expected element.

### Indexing arrays in Fortran

Fortran indexing does not occur in the same order as in C.
If we take the following 2D array as an example:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

In C the element `A[1,0]=4` is the fourth element in memory, however in Fortran the element `A(1,0)=4` is the second element in memory.
Thus to iterate over this array in the most efficient way in C we would do:
```C
# A.shape = (2,3)
for (int row = 0; row < 2; ++row) {
    for (int column = 0; column < 3; ++column) {
        A[row,column] = ....
    }
}
```

while in Fortran we would do:

```Fortran
# A.shape = (3,2)
do column = 0, 2
    do row = 0, 3
        A(row,column) = ....
    end do
end do
```

As you can see in the Fortran-ordered array the indices are inverted compared to how they would be printed in C.
Pyccel therefore handles the printing of Fortran-ordered arrays by inverting the index order so as to preserve the most efficient indexing.

Example:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == '__main__':
    A = np.array([[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]], order='C')
    B = np.array([[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]], order='F')
    print(A.shape)  # (3,2)
    print(B.shape)   # (3,2)
    # print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6])
    # print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6])

    # Index optimally for A:
    for row in range(3):
        for column in range(2):
            A[row,column] = ...

    # Index optimally for B:
    for column in range(2):
        for row in range(3):
            B[row,column] = ...
```

Will be translated to:

```Fortran
program prog_prog_tmp

  use tmp

  use, intrinsic :: ISO_C_Binding, only : i64 => C_INT64_T
  implicit none

  integer(i64), allocatable :: A(:,:)
  integer(i64), allocatable :: B(:,:)
  integer(i64) :: row
  integer(i64) :: column

  allocate(A(0:1_i64, 0:2_i64))
  A = reshape([[1_i64, 2_i64], [3_i64, 4_i64], [5_i64, 6_i64]], [2_i64, &
        3_i64])
  allocate(B(0:2_i64, 0:1_i64))
  B = transpose(reshape([[1_i64, 2_i64], [3_i64, 4_i64], [5_i64, 6_i64 &
        ]], [2_i64, 3_i64]))
  write(*, '(A A I0 A A A I0 A A)', advance="yes") '(' , ' ' , 3_i64 , '&
  & ' , ', ' , ' ' , 2_i64 , ' ' , ')'
  write(*, '()', advance="yes")
  write(*, '(A A I0 A A A I0 A A)', advance="yes") '(' , ' ' , 3_i64 , '&
  & ' , ', ' , ' ' , 2_i64 , ' ' , ')'
  write(*, '()', advance="yes")
  !print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6])
  !print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6])
  !Index optimally for A:
  do row = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
    do column = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
      A(column, row) = ...
    end do
  end do
  !Index optimally for B:
  do column = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
    do row = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
      B(row, column) = ...
    end do
  end do
  if (allocated(A)) then
    deallocate(A)
  end if
  if (allocated(B)) then
    deallocate(B)
  end if

end program prog_prog_tmp
```

Note the changes to the shape and the indexing, which make this code closer to the following intermediate representation:

```python
import numpy as np

if __name__ == '__main__':
    A_mem = np.array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    A = np.array(A_mem.reshape(2,3), order='C')
    B_mem = np.array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    B = np.array(B_mem.reshape(3,2), order='C')
    print(A.shape[::-1])  # (3,2)
    print(B.shape)   # (3,2)
    # print(A.ravel('K')) # array([1,2,3,4,5,6])
    # print(B.ravel('K')) # array([1,2,3,4,5,6])

    # Index optimally for A in F layout:
    for i in range(3):
        for j in range(2):
            A[j,i] = ...

    # Index optimally for B in F layout:
    for j in range(2):
        for i in range(3):
            B[i,j] = ...
```

### Order C

Consider the following 2D C-ordered array:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 2 | 3 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |

where the numbers indicate the position of the elements in memory. If this data block ([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]) were passed to Fortran indicating a size (2,3), we would obtain the following array:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 3 | 5 |
| 2 | 4 | 6 |

As a result we cannot pass the data block without either rearranging the elements (transpose), or changing the index. In pyccel we prefer avoiding unnecessary copies. As a result we pass a data block ([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]), but we indicate a size (3,2). This gives us the following array:

|   |   |
|---|---|
| 1 | 4 |
| 2 | 5 |
| 3 | 6 |

This is equivalent to the transpose of the original array. As a result we can obtain expected results by simply inverting the index order.

Therefore the following python code:
```python
for i in range(2):
    for j in range(3):
        a[i,j] = i*3+j
```

is translated to the following efficient indexing:
```fortran
do i = 0_i64, 1_i64, 1_i64
  do j = 0_i64, 2_i64, 1_i64
    a(j, i) = i * 3_i64 + j
  end do
end do
```
