developer_docs/review_process.md, before:

# Review Process

The review process is the process through which a branch which solves an issue is merged into the master branch.

When you believe your branch is ready to merge you should create a pull request. Be sure to add a description which allows other developers to understand what your changes aim to do. You may also want to include a commit summary as the pull request description forms the basis of the commit message shown on the master branch. In addition you should make sure that your pull request links to the issue that it is solving so that issue is automatically closed when the pull request is merged.

Once the pull request is opened 9 tests should be triggered they are: 

-   **Linux** : Runs the suite of tests on a linux machine
-   **MacOS** : Runs the suite of tests on a macOS machine
-   **Windows** : Runs the suite of tests on a windows machine
-   **Codacy** : Runs a static compiler via the [codacy](https://app.codacy.com/gh/pyccel/pyccel/dashboard) platform
-   **Python Linting** : Does the same job as Codacy for certain files which are too large for Codacy to handle.
-   **Pyccel Linting** : Runs a small static compiler to ensure that Pyccel coding guidelines are followed
-   **Spellcheck** : Checks whether there are any spelling mistakes in the documentation (if a word is incorrectly flagged as a typo it should be added to the file [.dict_custom.txt](../.dict_custom.txt))
-   **Coverage Checker** : Checks that the code which has been added is used in at least one test
-   **Doc Coverage** : Runs the [numpydoc](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) static compiler to ensure that docstrings are present and correctly formatted. This means that they should respect NumPy's style guide as described [here](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html).

Many of these tests generate human-friendly output so make sure you check the "Summary" section of the action to see these.

Once the pull request is open the tests will be triggered every time you push new changes to the branch. Please be mindful of this and try to avoid pushing multiple times in a row to save compute resources. If you do find you need to push repeatedly, don't hesitate to cancel concurrent jobs using the GitHub "Actions" tab.

When the pull request is ready for review (i.e. you are happy with it, and it is passing all tests) it can be marked as such and the review process can begin. This process is split into 3 stages which each have an associated label. The labels are described in the next sections. Pyccel has a bot which takes care of adding the appropriate label.

Once your pull request has been reviewed please react to the open conversations. If you disagree you can say this, if not please leave a reference to the commit which fixes the mentioned issue. This makes the review process faster and more streamlined. Please only resolve conversations that you opened. You may think you fixed the problem, but the reviewer may disagree and leaving the discussion open makes it easier for them to verify that they agree with you. If you are reviewing then please close all conversations that you open once the problem is resolved. If you don't this can block the merge.

Finally once you think you have handled all the issues raised in a review please re-request a review from the reviewer who requested changes.

## Review Stage Labels

### Needs Initial Review

To request the first stage of the review process you should ensure that your pull request is not marked as draft. If this is the case the label `needs_inital_review` will be added to your pull request. This asks for a review from anyone. The aim is to review the Python code and ensure that it is clean. New developers are encouraged to review any pull requests marked `needs_inital_review` as the process of understanding how developers integrate their improvements into the existing codebase can be quite instructive when getting to grips with the code. Examples of things to look out for in your review are:

-   Missing/Unclear pull request description
-   Unclear comments/docstrings
-   Missing/Incomplete tests
-   Code which could be faster (e.g. use of loops instead of list comprehensions)
-   Lack of `__slots__`
-   Unnecessary code duplication

Once the initial reviewer is happy with the branch they should accept the pull request. This will then trigger the label to be changed from `needs_inital_review` to `Ready_for_review` (unless there are other requested changes from other developers).

### Ready for Review

By this stage the code should be clean and understandable for at least two developers (the author and the reviewer). This label indicates that it is now ready for a senior developer to review. All of our senior developers are volunteers with busy schedules so the review has been split in two in this way to allow pull requests to be reviewed faster. By only requiring that senior developers review once the code is already somewhat cleaned up we avoid the small number of senior developers compared to junior developers becoming a bottleneck for merging.

Senior developers will look for anything missed in the initial review and any code which does not fit with the usual practices used in Pyccel. They will also ensure that the pull request makes sense in the context of planned future developments.

Once the senior developer is happy with the branch they should accept the pull request. This will then trigger the label to be changed from `Ready_for_review` to `Ready_to_merge` (unless there are other requested changes from other senior developers).

### Ready to merge

Once the code has been accepted by both a junior and a senior developer it should be ready to merge. This flag therefore indicates that one of our developers with merge permissions can review the code. They will look for anything missed by the previous two reviews.

Anyone can make silly mistakes so Pyccel aims to have all pull requests be reviewed by at least 2 developers before being merged to master.

Commit message:

Discourage blind changes to PRs after senior review queries

developer_docs/review_process.md, after:

# Review Process

The review process is the process through which a branch which solves an issue is merged into the master branch.

When you believe your branch is ready to merge you should create a pull request. Be sure to add a description which allows other developers to understand what your changes aim to do. You may also want to include a commit summary as the pull request description forms the basis of the commit message shown on the master branch. In addition you should make sure that your pull request links to the issue that it is solving so that issue is automatically closed when the pull request is merged.

Once the pull request is opened 9 tests should be triggered they are: 

-   **Linux** : Runs the suite of tests on a linux machine
-   **MacOS** : Runs the suite of tests on a macOS machine
-   **Windows** : Runs the suite of tests on a windows machine
-   **Codacy** : Runs a static compiler via the [codacy](https://app.codacy.com/gh/pyccel/pyccel/dashboard) platform
-   **Python Linting** : Does the same job as Codacy for certain files which are too large for Codacy to handle.
-   **Pyccel Linting** : Runs a small static compiler to ensure that Pyccel coding guidelines are followed
-   **Spellcheck** : Checks whether there are any spelling mistakes in the documentation (if a word is incorrectly flagged as a typo it should be added to the file [.dict_custom.txt](../.dict_custom.txt))
-   **Coverage Checker** : Checks that the code which has been added is used in at least one test
-   **Doc Coverage** : Runs the [numpydoc](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) static compiler to ensure that docstrings are present and correctly formatted. This means that they should respect NumPy's style guide as described [here](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html).

Many of these tests generate human-friendly output so make sure you check the "Summary" section of the action to see these.

Once the pull request is open the tests will be triggered every time you push new changes to the branch. Please be mindful of this and try to avoid pushing multiple times in a row to save compute resources. If you do find you need to push repeatedly, don't hesitate to cancel concurrent jobs using the GitHub "Actions" tab.

When the pull request is ready for review (i.e. you are happy with it, and it is passing all tests) it can be marked as such and the review process can begin. This process is split into 3 stages which each have an associated label. The labels are described in the next sections. Pyccel has a bot which takes care of adding the appropriate label.

Once your pull request has been reviewed please react to the open conversations. These can take 2 forms.
  1. Reviewers may ask for changes on the PR. If you disagree please explain why (reviewers have less awareness of the details of the issue than the author so they may not understand why a decision was made). If you agree then please fix the problem and comment with a reference to the commit which fixes the mentioned issue. This makes the review process faster and more streamlined.
  2. Reviewers may ask for more details on the PR, or on the thought process behind a certain code choice. This helps the reviewer learn about other approaches and better understand the code (which is important for understanding potential pitfalls for future PRs).

Please only resolve conversations that you opened. You may think you fixed the problem, but the reviewer may disagree and leaving the discussion open makes it easier for them to verify that they agree with you. If you are reviewing then please close all conversations that you open once the problem is resolved. If you don't this can block the merge.

Finally once you think you have handled all the issues raised in a review please re-request a review from the reviewer who requested changes.

## Review Stage Labels

### Needs Initial Review

To request the first stage of the review process you should ensure that your pull request is not marked as draft. If this is the case the label `needs_inital_review` will be added to your pull request. This asks for a review from anyone. The aim is to review the Python code and ensure that it is clean. New developers are encouraged to review any pull requests marked `needs_inital_review` as the process of understanding how developers integrate their improvements into the existing codebase can be quite instructive when getting to grips with the code. Examples of things to look out for in your review are:

-   Missing/Unclear pull request description
-   Unclear comments/docstrings
-   Missing/Incomplete tests
-   Code which could be faster (e.g. use of loops instead of list comprehensions)
-   Lack of `__slots__`
-   Unnecessary code duplication

Once the initial reviewer is happy with the branch they should accept the pull request. This will then trigger the label to be changed from `needs_inital_review` to `Ready_for_review` (unless there are other requested changes from other developers).

### Ready for Review

By this stage the code should be clean and understandable for at least two developers (the author and the reviewer). This label indicates that it is now ready for a senior developer to review. All of our senior developers are volunteers with busy schedules so the review has been split in two in this way to allow pull requests to be reviewed faster. By only requiring that senior developers review once the code is already somewhat cleaned up we avoid the small number of senior developers compared to junior developers becoming a bottleneck for merging.

Senior developers will look for anything missed in the initial review and any code which does not fit with the usual practices used in Pyccel. They will also ensure that the pull request makes sense in the context of planned future developments.

Once the senior developer is happy with the branch they should accept the pull request. This will then trigger the label to be changed from `Ready_for_review` to `Ready_to_merge` (unless there are other requested changes from other senior developers).

Remember senior developers are humans too and can also miss things or misunderstand what is necessary for the issue. Don't be scared to push back on their suggested changes if you feel they may be wrong.

### Ready to merge

Once the code has been accepted by both a junior and a senior developer it should be ready to merge. This flag therefore indicates that one of our developers with merge permissions can review the code. They will look for anything missed by the previous two reviews.

Anyone can make silly mistakes so Pyccel aims to have all pull requests be reviewed by at least 2 developers before being merged to master.
